README.md, before:

# netcore-boilerplate

Boilerplate of API in ~~`.NET Core 3.1`~~ `.NET 7`

| GitHub        | Codecov       |
|:-------------:|:-------------:|
| [![GitHub Build Status](https://github.com/lkurzyniec/netcore-boilerplate/workflows/Build%20%26%20Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lkurzyniec/netcore-boilerplate/actions) | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/lkurzyniec/netcore-boilerplate/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/lkurzyniec/netcore-boilerplate) |

Boilerplate is a piece of code that helps you to quickly kick-off a project or start writing your source code. It is kind of a template - instead
of starting an empty project and adding the same snippets each time, you can use the boilerplate that already contains such code.

## Source code contains

1. [Central Package Management (CPM)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/consume-packages/central-package-management)
1. ~~[Autofac]~~(https://autofac.org/) (Removed in [PR19](https://github.com/lkurzyniec/netcore-boilerplate/pull/19))
1. [Swagger](https://swagger.io/) + [Swashbuckle](https://github.com/domaindrivendev/Swashbuckle)
1. [FeatureManagement](https://github.com/microsoft/FeatureManagement-Dotnet) (Feature Flags, Feature Toggles)
1. [HealthChecks](https://github.com/Xabaril/AspNetCore.Diagnostics.HealthChecks)
1. [EF Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/ef/)
    * [MySQL provider from Pomelo Foundation](https://github.com/PomeloFoundation/Pomelo.EntityFrameworkCore.MySql)
    * [MsSQL from Microsoft](https://github.com/aspnet/EntityFrameworkCore/)
1. Tests
    * Integration tests with InMemory database
        * [FluentAssertions]
        * [xUnit]
        * [Verify](https://github.com/VerifyTests/Verify/)
        * TestServer
    * Unit tests
        * [AutoFixture](https://github.com/AutoFixture/AutoFixture)
        * [FluentAssertions]
        * [Moq](https://github.com/moq/moq4)
        * [Moq.AutoMock](https://github.com/moq/Moq.AutoMocker)
        * [xUnit]
    * Load tests
        * [FluentAssertions]
        * [NBomber](https://nbomber.com/)
        * [xUnit]
1. Code quality
    * [EditorConfig](https://editorconfig.org/) ([.editorconfig](.editorconfig))
    * Analizers
        * [Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.Analyzers](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn-analyzers)
        * [Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Api.Analyzers](https://github.com/aspnet/AspNetCore/tree/master/src/Analyzers)
        * [Microsoft.VisualStudio.Threading.Analyzers](https://github.com/microsoft/vs-threading)
    * CodeAnalysisRules [HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.ruleset](HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.ruleset)
    * Code coverage
        * [Coverlet](https://github.com/tonerdo/coverlet)
        * [Codecov](https://codecov.io/)
    * CI Code analysis with [CodeQL](https://codeql.github.com/)
1. Docker
    * [Dockerfile](dockerfile)
    * [Docker-compose](docker-compose.yml)
        * `mysql:8` with DB initialization
        * `mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server:2017-latest` with DB initialization
        * `netcore-boilerplate:local`
1. [Serilog](https://serilog.net/)
    * Sink: [Async](https://github.com/serilog/serilog-sinks-async)
1. [DbUp](http://dbup.github.io/) as a db migration tool
1. Continuous integration
    * ~~[Travis CI]~~(https://travis-ci.org/) ([travisci.yml](https://github.com/lkurzyniec/netcore-boilerplate/blob/bf65154b63f6a10d6753045c49cd378e53907816/.travis.yml))
    * [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions)
        * [dotnetcore.yml](.github/workflows/dotnetcore.yml)
        * [codeql-analysis.yml](.github/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml)
        * [docker.yml](.github/workflows/docker.yml)

## Architecture

### Api

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api)

* Simple Startup class - [Startup.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Startup.cs)
  * MvcCore
  * DbContext (with MySQL)
  * DbContext (with MsSQL)
  * Swagger and SwaggerUI (Swashbuckle)
  * HostedService and HttpClient
  * FeatureManagement
  * HealthChecks
    * MySQL
    * MsSQL
* Filters
  * Simple `ApiKey` Authorization filter - [ApiKeyAuthorizationFilter.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Infrastructure/Filters/ApiKeyAuthorizationFilter.cs)
  * Action filter to validate `ModelState` - [ValidateModelStateFilter.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Infrastructure/Filters/ValidateModelStateFilter.cs)
  * Global exception filter - [HttpGlobalExceptionFilter.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Infrastructure/Filters/HttpGlobalExceptionFilter.cs)
* Configurations
  * Dependency registration place - [ContainerConfigurator.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Infrastructure/Configurations/ContainerConfigurator.cs)
  * `Serilog` configuration place - [SerilogConfigurator.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Infrastructure/Configurations/SerilogConfigurator.cs)
  * `Swagger` configuration place - [SwaggerConfigurator.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Infrastructure/Configurations/SwaggerConfigurator.cs)
* Simple exemplary API controllers - [EmployeesController.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Controllers/EmployeesController.cs), [CarsController.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Controllers/CarsController.cs)
* Example of BackgroundService - [PingWebsiteBackgroundService.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/BackgroundServices/PingWebsiteBackgroundService.cs)

![HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api](.assets/api.png "HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api")

### Core

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core)

* Dto models
* DB models
* Registration module - [GeneralRegisterModule.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core/RegisterModules/GeneralRegisterModule.cs)
* Exemplary MySQL repository - [EmployeeRepository.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core/Repositories/EmployeeRepository.cs)
* Exemplary MsSQL service - [CarService.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core/Services/CarService.cs)
* AppSettings models
* Simple MySQL DbContext - [EmployeesContext.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core/EmployeesContext.cs)
* Simple MsSQL DbContext - [CarsContext.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core/CarsContext.cs)

![HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core](.assets/core.png "HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core")

## DB Migrations

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db)

* Console application as a simple db migration tool - [Program.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db/Program.cs)
* Sample migration scripts, both `.sql` and `.cs` - [S001_AddCarTypesTable.sql](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db/Scripts/Sql/S001_AddCarTypesTable.sql), [S002_ModifySomeRows.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db/Scripts/Code/S002_ModifySomeRows.cs)

![HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db](.assets/db.png "HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db")

## Tests

### Integration tests

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests)

* Infrastructure
  * Fixture with TestServer - [TestServerClientFixture.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests/Infrastructure/TestServerClientFixture.cs)
  * TestStartup with InMemory databases - [TestStartup.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests/Infrastructure/TestStartup.cs)
  * Simple data feeders - [EmployeeContextDataFeeder.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests/Infrastructure/DataFeeders/EmployeeContextDataFeeder.cs), [CarsContextDataFeeder.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests/Infrastructure/DataFeeders/CarsContextDataFeeder.cs)
* Exemplary tests - [EmployeesTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests/EmployeesTests.cs), [CarsTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests/CarsTests.cs)

![HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests](.assets/itests.png "HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests")

### Unit tests

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.UnitTests](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.UnitTests)

* Exemplary tests - [EmployeesControllerTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.UnitTests/Controllers/EmployeesControllerTests.cs)
* Unit tests of `ApiKeyAuthorizationFilter.cs` - [ApiKeyAuthorizationFilterTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.UnitTests/Infrastructure/Filters/ApiKeyAuthorizationFilterTests.cs)

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests)

* Extension methods to mock `DbSet` faster - [EnumerableExtensions.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests/Extensions/EnumerableExtensions.cs)
* Exemplary tests - [EmployeeRepositoryTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests/Repositories/EmployeeRepositoryTests.cs), [CarServiceTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests/Services/CarServiceTests.cs)

![HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests](.assets/utests.png "HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests")

### Load tests

> **Keep in mind that entire environment has to be up and running.**

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests)

* Base class for controller - [LoadTestsBase.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests/Controllers/LoadTestsBase.cs)
* Exemplary tests - [EmployeesControllerTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests/Controllers/EmployeesControllerTests.cs), [CarsControllerTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests/Controllers/CarsControllerTests.cs)

![HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests](.assets/ltests.png "HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests")

## How to adapt to your project

Generally it is totally up to you! But in case you do not have any plan, You can follow below simple steps:

1. Download/clone/fork repository :arrow_heading_down:
1. Remove components and/or classes that you do not need to :fire:
1. Rename files (e.g. sln, csproj, ruleset), folders, namespaces etc :memo:
1. Appreciate the work :star:

## Build the solution

Just execute `dotnet build` in the root directory, it takes `HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.sln` and build everything.

## Start the application

### Standalone

At first, you need to have up and running [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/downloads/) and [MsSQL](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server/sql-server-downloads) database servers on localhost with initialized
database by [mysql script](db/mysql/mysql-employees.sql) and [mssql script](db/mssql/mssql-cars.sql).

Then the application (API) can be started by `dotnet run` command executed in the `src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api` directory.
By default it will be available under http://localhost:5000/, but keep in mind that documentation is available under
http://localhost:5000/swagger/.

### Docker (recommended)

Just run `docker-compose up` command in the root directory and after successful start of services visit http://localhost:5000/swagger/.
To check that API has connection to both MySQL and MsSQL databases visit http://localhost:5000/health/.

### Migrations

When the entire environment is up and running, you can additionally run a migration tool to add some new schema objects into MsSQL DB. To do that, go to `src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db` directory and execute `dotnet run` command.

## Run unit tests

Run `dotnet test` command in the root directory, it will look for test projects in `HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.sln` and run them.

## To Do

* any idea? Please create an issue.

## Be like a star, give me a star! :star:

If:

* you like this repo/code,
* you learn something,
* you are using it in your project/application,

then please give me a `star`, appreciate my work. Thanks!

## Buy me a coffee! :coffee:

[![Buy me a coffee](https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/lato-blue.png)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/lkurzyniec)

[FluentAssertions]: https://fluentassertions.com/
[xUnit]: https://xunit.net/

Commit message:

added info about line endings on Linux

README.md, after:

# netcore-boilerplate

Boilerplate of API in ~~`.NET Core 3.1`~~ `.NET 7`

| GitHub        | Codecov       |
|:-------------:|:-------------:|
| [![GitHub Build Status](https://github.com/lkurzyniec/netcore-boilerplate/workflows/Build%20%26%20Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lkurzyniec/netcore-boilerplate/actions) | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/lkurzyniec/netcore-boilerplate/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/lkurzyniec/netcore-boilerplate) |

Boilerplate is a piece of code that helps you to quickly kick-off a project or start writing your source code. It is kind of a template - instead
of starting an empty project and adding the same snippets each time, you can use the boilerplate that already contains such code.

## Source code contains

1. [Central Package Management (CPM)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/nuget/consume-packages/central-package-management)
1. ~~[Autofac]~~(https://autofac.org/) (Removed in [PR19](https://github.com/lkurzyniec/netcore-boilerplate/pull/19))
1. [Swagger](https://swagger.io/) + [Swashbuckle](https://github.com/domaindrivendev/Swashbuckle)
1. [FeatureManagement](https://github.com/microsoft/FeatureManagement-Dotnet) (Feature Flags, Feature Toggles)
1. [HealthChecks](https://github.com/Xabaril/AspNetCore.Diagnostics.HealthChecks)
1. [EF Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/ef/)
    * [MySQL provider from Pomelo Foundation](https://github.com/PomeloFoundation/Pomelo.EntityFrameworkCore.MySql)
    * [MsSQL from Microsoft](https://github.com/aspnet/EntityFrameworkCore/)
1. Tests
    * Integration tests with InMemory database
        * [FluentAssertions]
        * [xUnit]
        * [Verify](https://github.com/VerifyTests/Verify/)
        * TestServer
    * Unit tests
        * [AutoFixture](https://github.com/AutoFixture/AutoFixture)
        * [FluentAssertions]
        * [Moq](https://github.com/moq/moq4)
        * [Moq.AutoMock](https://github.com/moq/Moq.AutoMocker)
        * [xUnit]
    * Load tests
        * [FluentAssertions]
        * [NBomber](https://nbomber.com/)
        * [xUnit]
1. Code quality
    * [EditorConfig](https://editorconfig.org/) ([.editorconfig](.editorconfig))
    * Analizers
        * [Microsoft.CodeAnalysis.Analyzers](https://github.com/dotnet/roslyn-analyzers)
        * [Microsoft.AspNetCore.Mvc.Api.Analyzers](https://github.com/aspnet/AspNetCore/tree/master/src/Analyzers)
        * [Microsoft.VisualStudio.Threading.Analyzers](https://github.com/microsoft/vs-threading)
    * CodeAnalysisRules [HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.ruleset](HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.ruleset)
    * Code coverage
        * [Coverlet](https://github.com/tonerdo/coverlet)
        * [Codecov](https://codecov.io/)
    * CI Code analysis with [CodeQL](https://codeql.github.com/)
1. Docker
    * [Dockerfile](dockerfile)
    * [Docker-compose](docker-compose.yml)
        * `mysql:8` with DB initialization
        * `mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server:2017-latest` with DB initialization
        * `netcore-boilerplate:local`
1. [Serilog](https://serilog.net/)
    * Sink: [Async](https://github.com/serilog/serilog-sinks-async)
1. [DbUp](http://dbup.github.io/) as a db migration tool
1. Continuous integration
    * ~~[Travis CI]~~(https://travis-ci.org/) ([travisci.yml](https://github.com/lkurzyniec/netcore-boilerplate/blob/bf65154b63f6a10d6753045c49cd378e53907816/.travis.yml))
    * [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions)
        * [dotnetcore.yml](.github/workflows/dotnetcore.yml)
        * [codeql-analysis.yml](.github/workflows/codeql-analysis.yml)
        * [docker.yml](.github/workflows/docker.yml)

## Architecture

### Api

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api)

* Simple Startup class - [Startup.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Startup.cs)
  * MvcCore
  * DbContext (with MySQL)
  * DbContext (with MsSQL)
  * Swagger and SwaggerUI (Swashbuckle)
  * HostedService and HttpClient
  * FeatureManagement
  * HealthChecks
    * MySQL
    * MsSQL
* Filters
  * Simple `ApiKey` Authorization filter - [ApiKeyAuthorizationFilter.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Infrastructure/Filters/ApiKeyAuthorizationFilter.cs)
  * Action filter to validate `ModelState` - [ValidateModelStateFilter.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Infrastructure/Filters/ValidateModelStateFilter.cs)
  * Global exception filter - [HttpGlobalExceptionFilter.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Infrastructure/Filters/HttpGlobalExceptionFilter.cs)
* Configurations
  * Dependency registration place - [ContainerConfigurator.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Infrastructure/Configurations/ContainerConfigurator.cs)
  * `Serilog` configuration place - [SerilogConfigurator.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Infrastructure/Configurations/SerilogConfigurator.cs)
  * `Swagger` configuration place - [SwaggerConfigurator.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Infrastructure/Configurations/SwaggerConfigurator.cs)
* Simple exemplary API controllers - [EmployeesController.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Controllers/EmployeesController.cs), [CarsController.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/Controllers/CarsController.cs)
* Example of BackgroundService - [PingWebsiteBackgroundService.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api/BackgroundServices/PingWebsiteBackgroundService.cs)

![HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api](.assets/api.png "HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api")

### Core

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core)

* Dto models
* DB models
* Registration module - [GeneralRegisterModule.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core/RegisterModules/GeneralRegisterModule.cs)
* Exemplary MySQL repository - [EmployeeRepository.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core/Repositories/EmployeeRepository.cs)
* Exemplary MsSQL service - [CarService.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core/Services/CarService.cs)
* AppSettings models
* Simple MySQL DbContext - [EmployeesContext.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core/EmployeesContext.cs)
* Simple MsSQL DbContext - [CarsContext.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core/CarsContext.cs)

![HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core](.assets/core.png "HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core")

## DB Migrations

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db)

* Console application as a simple db migration tool - [Program.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db/Program.cs)
* Sample migration scripts, both `.sql` and `.cs` - [S001_AddCarTypesTable.sql](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db/Scripts/Sql/S001_AddCarTypesTable.sql), [S002_ModifySomeRows.cs](src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db/Scripts/Code/S002_ModifySomeRows.cs)

![HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db](.assets/db.png "HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db")

## Tests

### Integration tests

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests)

* Infrastructure
  * Fixture with TestServer - [TestServerClientFixture.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests/Infrastructure/TestServerClientFixture.cs)
  * TestStartup with InMemory databases - [TestStartup.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests/Infrastructure/TestStartup.cs)
  * Simple data feeders - [EmployeeContextDataFeeder.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests/Infrastructure/DataFeeders/EmployeeContextDataFeeder.cs), [CarsContextDataFeeder.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests/Infrastructure/DataFeeders/CarsContextDataFeeder.cs)
* Exemplary tests - [EmployeesTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests/EmployeesTests.cs), [CarsTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests/CarsTests.cs)

![HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests](.assets/itests.png "HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.IntegrationTests")

### Unit tests

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.UnitTests](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.UnitTests)

* Exemplary tests - [EmployeesControllerTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.UnitTests/Controllers/EmployeesControllerTests.cs)
* Unit tests of `ApiKeyAuthorizationFilter.cs` - [ApiKeyAuthorizationFilterTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.UnitTests/Infrastructure/Filters/ApiKeyAuthorizationFilterTests.cs)

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests)

* Extension methods to mock `DbSet` faster - [EnumerableExtensions.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests/Extensions/EnumerableExtensions.cs)
* Exemplary tests - [EmployeeRepositoryTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests/Repositories/EmployeeRepositoryTests.cs), [CarServiceTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests/Services/CarServiceTests.cs)

![HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests](.assets/utests.png "HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Core.UnitTests")

### Load tests

> **Keep in mind that entire environment has to be up and running.**

[HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests)

* Base class for controller - [LoadTestsBase.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests/Controllers/LoadTestsBase.cs)
* Exemplary tests - [EmployeesControllerTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests/Controllers/EmployeesControllerTests.cs), [CarsControllerTests.cs](test/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests/Controllers/CarsControllerTests.cs)

![HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests](.assets/ltests.png "HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api.LoadTests")

## How to adapt to your project

Generally it is totally up to you! But in case you do not have any plan, You can follow below simple steps:

1. Download/clone/fork repository :arrow_heading_down:
1. Remove components and/or classes that you do not need to :fire:
1. Rename files (e.g. sln, csproj, ruleset), folders, namespaces etc :memo:
1. Appreciate the work :star:

## Build the solution

Just execute `dotnet build` in the root directory, it takes `HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.sln` and build everything.

## Start the application

### Standalone

At first, you need to have up and running [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/downloads/) and [MsSQL](https://www.microsoft.com/sql-server/sql-server-downloads) database servers on localhost with initialized
database by [mysql script](db/mysql/mysql-employees.sql) and [mssql script](db/mssql/mssql-cars.sql).

Then the application (API) can be started by `dotnet run` command executed in the `src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Api` directory.
By default it will be available under http://localhost:5000/, but keep in mind that documentation is available under
http://localhost:5000/swagger/.

### Docker (recommended)

Just run `docker-compose up` command in the root directory and after successful start of services visit http://localhost:5000/swagger/.
To check that API has connection to both MySQL and MsSQL databases visit http://localhost:5000/health/.

> When running on `Linux` (i.e. [WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install)), make sure that all docker files
([dockerfile](dockerfile), [docker-compose](docker-compose.yml) and all [mssql files](db/mssql)) have line endings `LF`.

### Migrations

When the entire environment is up and running, you can additionally run a migration tool to add some new schema objects into MsSQL DB. To do that, go to `src/HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.Db` directory and execute `dotnet run` command.

## Run unit tests

Run `dotnet test` command in the root directory, it will look for test projects in `HappyCode.NetCoreBoilerplate.sln` and run them.

## To Do

* any idea? Please create an issue.

## Be like a star, give me a star! :star:

If:

* you like this repo/code,
* you learn something,
* you are using it in your project/application,

then please give me a `star`, appreciate my work. Thanks!

## Buy me a coffee! :coffee:

[![Buy me a coffee](https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/lato-blue.png)](https://www.buymeacoffee.com/lkurzyniec)

[FluentAssertions]: https://fluentassertions.com/
[xUnit]: https://xunit.net/
